# Epiplexity for Weak-to-Strong Oversight

## Objective
The core thesis is to explore the use of Epiplexity and Time Bounded Entropy as a mechanism for AI alignment and weak to strong oversight. The goal is to show that a weak learner can distinguish mathematically between aligned and obfuscated outputs generated by a strong model, without semantically understanding the output. The paper [From Entropy to Epiplexity](https://arxiv.org/pdf/2601.03220) explains the concepts being used in this experiment. The data used can be evaluated based on what a computationally bounded observer can extract.
* Aligned Code - Contains highly learnable structurral dependencies. Weak model show sharp drop in loss giving high epiplexity and low time bounded entropy.
* Obfuscated Code - Contains crypotographic pattern which is hard to learn. Weak model shows high time bounded entropy and low epiplexity.

## Proof of Concept Notebook
This notebook was run on Kaggle free T4 GPU resources so used very simple data and model. Aligned data came from hugging face `flytech/python-codes-25k` and obfuscated data was synthetically generated. The findings were not that great, but seem directionally correct.
Benign Traces: Epiplexity: 65.53 | Time Bounded Entropy: 3.32
Obfuscated Traces: Epiplexity: 62.59 | Time Bounded Entropy: 3.91

The synthetic data seems like the limitation since it was generated using some static rules and did not have much variety.

## Next Steps
* Introduce varaince in Obfuscated data.
* Scale the dataset and the model.
